Tim asks, say you were refactoring
a large app from Redux to Xstate.
What would the end result look like?
Would it be one large state machine?
Or would it be a composition of
many smaller state machines?
That's a really good question.
So one of the big differences
between Redux and
Xstate is that Redux espouses this idea
that there's one atomic global state.
And so in this global state, this is where
you have all of your state updates and
u selectors to select slices of that
global state that you want to use in your
application.
Now Redux, especially for React and
anything else that uses Redux,
has to do a lot of tricks to make sure
that any state updates to that global
states don't cause wide spread
state updates everywhere else.
So in events-driven modelling,
we call this chatty.
So we could say that the store
that Redux has is chatty,
because every single update that happens
to it is going to tell everything else.
Hey, guess what?
I have some new states.
And so you might not always want that.
You might only want to care about
a particular piece of that state.
The actor model naturally separates
those states into separate actors.
So because the parents state
just spawns those actors,
those actors could update their state all
they want, they could receive events.
They could send events,
they could do whatever.
And the parents will never know unless
the actor explicitly sends an events
to the parents.
And so, in that way using the actor
model is a lot less chatty than using
something like Redux.
But again,
the learning curve is a little bit bigger.
Are there any examples of composition of
many smaller machines or state charts?
So that goes hand in hand
with the previous question.
Unlike Redux, where you're combining
all of your reducers together,
with Xstate, if you could separate
behavior out into a separate actor,
then that's what you should do.
If you've worked in the back end world,
you could think of this as monoliths
versus micro services microservices.
If your monolith gets really,
really huge, then chances are you wanna
take some of that functionality and
separate it into microservices.
Now it is possible to go too far
on one side of the spectrum and
too far on the other side of the spectrum.
So this is a modeling problem.
It's up to you to determine.
Do you want all of your states to be
represented in one state chart or
in many state charts?